# Project Paranoid

## Overview

**Paranoid** project checks for well known weaknesses on cryptographic artifacts
such as public keys, digital signatures and general pseudorandom numbers.
This library contains implementations and optimizations of existing work found
in the literature. The existing work showed that the generation of these
artifacts was flawed in some cases. The following  are some examples of
publications the library is based on.

-   [Arjen K. Lenstra, James P. Hughes, Maxime Augier, Joppe W. Bos, Thorsten
    Kleinjung, and Christophe Wachter. (2012). **Ron was wrong, Whit is
    right**](https://eprint.iacr.org/2012/064);

-   [Nadia Heninger, Zakir Durumeric, Eric Wustrow, and J. Alex Halderman.
    (2012). **Mining Your Ps and Qs: Detection of Widespread Weak Keys in
    Network
    Devices**](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity12/technical-sessions/presentation/heninger);

-   [Daniel J. Bernstein, Yun-An Chang, Chen-Mou Cheng, Li-Ping Chou, Nadia
    Heninger, Tanja Lange, and Nicko van Someren. (2013). **Factoring RSA keys
    from certified smart cards: Coppersmith in the
    wild**](https://eprint.iacr.org/2013/599);

-   [Joachim Breitner and Nadia Heninger. (2019). **Biased Nonce Sense: Lattice
    Attacks against Weak ECDSA Signatures in
    Cryptocurrencies**](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/023);

## Goal

The goal is to increase the confidence in cryptography use cases inside and
outside Google.

When dealing with asymmetric encryption, crypto artifacts usually are:

1.  Generated by one of our own tools (e.g., at Google we use for example
    [boringssl](https://github.com/google/boringssl) or
    [tink](https://github.com/google/tink)); or,
2.  Generated by third party tools that we have access to (so these tools can
    be, for example, checked for vulnerabilities using
    [wycheproof](https://github.com/google/wycheproof)); or,
3.  **Generated by third party tools and/or hardware or software black boxes
    that we do not have access to.**

With Paranoid, any cryptographic artifact can be tested, but its primary
motivation is to detect the usage of weak third party hardware or software black
boxes. Hence, Paranoid can be used even if we are not able to inspect the source
code (situation 3. listed above).

The project aims to detect known vulnerabilities as well as unknown ones. E.g.,
it tries to identify vulnerabilities caused by programming errors or the use of
weak proprietary random number generators. Detecting new vulnerabilities is of
course much more difficult than detecting known ones. Such detections may
require large sets of artifacts or find weak ones only with a low probability.

Therefore, we are very interested to receive feedback and learn about the
cryptographic library that generated weak cryptographic artifacts (See [call for
contributions](https://security.googleblog.com/2022/08/announcing-open-sourcing-of-paranoids.html)
). The project is constantly work in progress. After learning about weak
implementations the plan is to analyze and add detections targeting them.

## Getting Started

Documentation for the current implemented checks is located at [docs](docs). The
documentation will be populated with more content over time.

To learn how to use the checks, you can look at the [examples](examples)
folder or the unit tests (\*test.py files). The examples demonstrate testing
different crypto artifacts.

###  Installation

Clone the repository:

```$ git clone https://github.com/google/paranoid_crypto.git && cd paranoid_crypto```

**NOTE**: The commands below have been tested on Debian latest stable version
(bullseye). Make sure you will be using `python3.9` or newer.

Install dependencies:

```$ sudo apt update && sudo apt install python3 python3-pip python3-pybind11 python3-fpylll libgmp-dev protobuf-compiler```

Install paranoid_crypto python package:

```$ python3 -m pip install .```

To check whether the installation was successful, you can run the unit tests.
For example:

```
$ cd paranoid_crypto && python3 -m unittest discover -b -p "*test.py"
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 305 tests in 314.660s

OK
```

### Docker

Alternatively, if you want to run it in a container, you can use our provided
[Dockerfile](Dockerfile) as shown below.

**NOTE**: Make sure you have [docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
installed.

After cloning the repository, build the docker image:

```$ docker build -t paranoid-img .```

Create and start the container:

```
$ docker run --name paranoid-container -it paranoid-img
paranoid-user@6191368b26b8:~$
```

To check whether the installation was successful, you can run the unit tests.
For example:

```
paranoid-user@6191368b26b8:~$ cd paranoid_crypto && python3 -m unittest discover -b -p "*test.py"
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 305 tests in 307.555s

OK
```

## Preliminary results

Similar to other published works, we have been analyzing the crypto artifacts
from [Certificate Transparency (CT)](https://certificate.transparency.dev),
which logs issued website certificates since 2013 with the goal of making them
transparent and verifiable. Its database contains more than 7 billion
certificates as of September 2022. For the Paranoid checks of EC public keys and
ECDSA signatures, so far, we have not found any weak artifacts in CT. For the
RSA public key checks with severities high or critical, we have the following
results:

|       **TestName**       | **Potentially Related CVEs** |    **Severity**   | **Number of Weak Artifacts** |
|:------------------------:|:----------------------------:|:-----------------:|:----------------------------:|
|   CheckOpensslDenylist   |         CVE-2008-0166        | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |             3989             |
|         CheckROCA        |        CVE-2017-15361        |   SEVERITY_HIGH   |             2875             |
|         CheckGCD         |               -              | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |             1860             |
|        CheckFermat       |        CVE-2022-26320        | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |              36              |
|  CheckContinuedFractions |               -              | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |              16              |
|     CheckBitPatterns     |               -              | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |               6              |
| CheckPermutedBitPatterns |               -              | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |               6              |
|   CheckKeypairDenylist   |        CVE-2021-41117        | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |               4              |
|      CheckPollardpm1     |               -              | SEVERITY_CRITICAL |               1              |

Some of these certificates were already expired or revoked. For the ones that
were still active (most of the CheckGCD ones), we immediately reported them to
the Certificate Authorities to be revoked.

## ABOUT

This library is developed and maintained by members of Google Security Team, but
this is not an officially supported Google product. If you want to contribute,
please read [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) and send us pull requests. You can
also report bugs or file feature requests.

If you use Paranoid in your research, you can cite it using the following
BibTeX:
```
@software{Barbosa_Bleichenbacher_Paranoid_Crypto_2022,
  author = {Barbosa, Pedro and Bleichenbacher, Daniel},
  license = {Apache-2.0},
  month = {8},
  title = {{Paranoid Crypto}},
  url = {https://github.com/google/paranoid_crypto},
  year = {2022}
}
```
